1. Probably the most frequent questions we receive is regarding an error such as:
"FATAL: Error whilst running blastpgp - script terminated!"

This error just means that the script tried to run PSI-BLAST, but failed for some reason.
Unfortunately, we did not write PSI-BLAST so we can't diagnose technical problems with it. The usual
reason for PSI-BLAST failures is something quite ordinary, however - you probably have not installed
something properly. If you get errors when running the runpsipred script, then the first place to
look is the runpsipred script. You should see some lines like this:

set dbname = uniref90filt
set ncbidir = /usr/local/bin
set execdir = ./bin
set datadir = ./data

The first line sets the name of the database you wish to use. We happen to use UNIREF90, but you
may have decided to use the NCBI nr data bank or something else. In that case, you probably want
to change the dbname e.g. to:

set dbname = nrfilt

The ncbidir variable should point to the various NCBI blast executables, execdir the PSIPRED executables
and datadir the PSIPRED data files. If any of these lines in the runpsipred script don't correspond to
the way things are ON YOUR OWN SYSTEM then it won't work. There is almost no chance that things on your
system are exactly where they are on our system, so if you think you don't need to edit the runpsipred
script then you are probably mistaken!

If you are facing a blastpgp error, then the first thing you should check is that you can run blastpgp
on its own. Try a basic command like this, for example:

/usr/local/bin/blastpgp -i example.fasta -d uniref90filt

(this assumes that you have a test sequence in your currect directory called example.fasta)

If you get errors when you run this command then the same problems will happen in the runpsipred script.
In that case you need to fix the PSI-BLAST problems before returning to running PSIPRED.

Here's a brief checklist of questions to go through if you have problems:


Have you downloaded the correct version of the NCBI toolkit for your system?

Are you using the legacy BLAST or the new BLAST+?

Have you downloaded a sequence data bank?

Have you filtered the data bank with the pfilt command?

Have you formatted the data bank with the formatdb command?

What name did you give to the data bank?

Have you edited the runpsipred script with the correct data bank name and directories?

Does blastpgp work when you run it from a command line?



2. The next most common question we get regards getting different predictions from our PSIPRED web server from those you
get on your own system. There are many reasons why this might occur, but the most obvious one is that we are using a
different sequence data bank to the one you are using. Because modern secondary structure prediction methods are based on
analysing multiple sequence alignments, if your data bank includes some extra sequences or misses out some sequences compared
to our local data bank then you might get a slightly different prediction. Hopefully the differences will be small, but
they can be quite significant if the alignment only includes a few sequences. So, if our server can find say just 5
homologous sequences and your system finds 20 homologous sequences to align, then the predictions may be very different
indeed. That's just the reality of analysing evolutionary information. If the alignments are different, then the predicted
secondary structure will probably be different.

It's also possible that we are running a slightly older version of PSIPRED. Oddly enough we don't update our servers immediately
after releasing a new version of PSIPRED as we need to do internal testing first. So, check that you are running the exact
same version of PSIPRED as our server is currently running. Even so, it's likely that the real problem is going to be down
to differences in the data banks and alignments that are produced.
